ICS a new and unique system that will
revolutionize the global conveying
industry has arrived
the innovative conveying system a decade
of research and development has resulted
in a groundbreaking technology that
stands ready to engage with a vast array
of material handling challenges
conveying systems are integral to
production in a wide variety of
industries worldwide including mining
shipping agriculture and industrial
processing the ICS has been developed to
deliver significant production and cost
benefits across a broad range of
applications various inadequacies have
been identified in today's belt conveyor
technologies the ICS is design addresses
key problems it is a superior product in
terms of economic safety environmental
maintenance and production benefits
current technologies in the market
include conventional conveyors the
serpent ticks flexural pipe conveyors
saikhan and Anoka Becker many
applications worldwide require multiple
abilities such as steep inclines
sweeping dust elimination small radius
horizontal curves small radius vertical
curves large particle conveying long
distance convey easy belt change modular
components elimination of carry back and
two-way conveying the ICS is the only
system to meet all these criteria a key
innovation of the ICS design is seen in
the patented corrugated built
it's unique flexible architecture allows
full lateral horizontal and vertical
movement the belt is carried on
custom-designed idler assemblies which
can be configured to suit a variety of
existing infrastructure its movement is
powered by a series of synchronized
drive units these units are simple to
maintain and replace the modular system
is easily assembled and is adaptable to
any environment its design capabilities
will allow users to achieve goals
previously impossible industries will
benefit from the many key capabilities
the ICS has to offer this scenario
depicts a power station and how the ICS
overcomes a number of obstacles to
increase production safety and
efficiency
coal is loaded into the belt and is
instantly enclosed to reduce dust and
contamination it is transported over a
great distance effortlessly overcoming a
variety of obstacles before being
offloaded at the power station ready for
use the belt continues on before being
reloaded with fly ash which is returned
to the mine for backfilling the
innovative conveying systems flexible
routing ability allows the material to
be discharged in a customized
pre-configured path this alleviates the
need for additional equipment to
constantly redistribute it the unique
belt architecture enables the ICS to
achieve small radius curves the
configurations allow each section of the
belt to bend both horizontally and
vertically within a radius as small as 5
metres this is particularly useful where
the conveyor path is required to perform
tight turns around established
infrastructure or sensitive natural
terrain the ability to negotiate steep
angles is used in many situations the
ICS can convey material up to 80 degrees
which overcomes typical conveying
restrictions this allows for the most
efficient material path
eliminating costs associated with
developing pathways for conventional
equipment you have just witnessed a
select few of the ICS as capabilities
but not all that it has to offer the
belt completely encapsulate the material
eliminating dust emissions between the
load and discharge points and sealing it
from the external environment particle
emissions are a constant threat
preventing this means protecting field
personnel and the environment from
contamination the modular nature of the
ICS means it can be disassembled into
smaller sections these can be
transported on standard trucks without
the requirement for special permits or
oversized escort equipment when in a
mobile configuration the ICS can be
moved as a complete system and can be
integrated into site easily for instance
it can be introduced into a tunnel
without disrupting pre-existing
operations this represents a low
establishment risk coordinating with the
advance of the tunnel the ICS vastly
improves the rate of progress the unique
built architecture and couplings allow
for Swift and simple extension or
contraction of the conveyor system this
high degree of modularity allows for
adjustment of the configuration to suit
changing circumstances conveyor belt
maintenance can impact an industry
significantly with the need for extended
machinery downtime and highly skilled
maintenance crews by contrast belt
sections of the ICS can be quickly
replaced in less than 30 minutes using
any personnel with nominal training and
simple tools the ICS can be integrated
into any industry with the range of
mounting options available
the belts design enables it to be
suspended above the ground or it can be
mounted on wheels and tracks for
increased mobility
additionally the ICS can be secured to
existing structures or seated on
pontoons
industries are constantly seeking
improvements in safety production and
efficiency the ICS delivers in all of
these areas making it a clear first
choice it is the only conveying system
that excels when confronted with diverse
global conveying needs the ICS will
deliver production and cost benefits
previously unimaginable using current
material handling solutions a case study
in an open cut mine
comparing the ICS to the current mine
practices showed a capital cost
reduction of 59% and an operating cost
reduction of 41% similar results were
realized in a tunneling scenario clearly
the ICS is a technology that industry
cannot afford to ignore with patents in
key areas of the globe including the
United States innovative conveying
systems is a new force to be reckoned
with the ICS team offers a comprehensive
set of capabilities in design production
and field work as well as planning and
management ongoing development is
unlocking new and exciting applications
the future is rich with potential
growing international trade new
frontiers and mining and the swelling
economies of China and India all drive
the growth in the sheer volume of
material to be handled with its
unprecedented capabilities and its
impressive economic advantages the ICS
has arrived
you